To avoid jumping of signals, Tyre killers should be installed in all the lanes of the cross road. Tyre killers should be made in such a way that they can move i.e; they can come over the road and as well as the can go beneath the road. The working should be in such a that lane which has green light in that lane tyrekillers should gobeneath the road and rest of all the lanes having red signals should have tyrekillers over the road .By this innovation we can control Signal Jumping.

To avoid wrong route riding, Tyre killers should be placed at all  the places on the road, their. working should be in such a that  riders coming in same direction have no effect but people riding in wrong direction vehicle tyres are punctured in this waywe cancontrol wrong route riders.

In this project we have modified the existing tyre killers. we are  using gear motor beneath the road, the shaft of the gear motorcontains nail which has threads and weare fixing the tyre killers to single rod and in center of rod we are fixing perpendicular hollow rod with screw on other side. This is kept on nail of motor. If motor rotates clockwise spikes comes down and if anticlockwise spikes goes up. We complete the project in such a way that when red light comes the spikes comes above the road and when orange light comes, the spikes should go beneath the road.To solve the issue of the ambulance, we will keep two sound sensors on each lane of road which is going towards signal. onesound sensor is placed 200meters before the signal and other sound sensor is placed 100meters before the signal. only if second
sensor is detected after the first sensor then above principal worksotherwiseit won’t.
